If you don't proofread your writing, if you don't rewrite to make it better, then what's going to happen when you give it to someone to read? They're going to be like, have to deal with all this bullshit. One of you has to experience that pain. Yeah.

In my view, it should be the artist. The artist should experience the pain, the it. And then because I do that, you don't have to read spelling mistakes or, like, things that were miswritten or whatever.

Because I proofread and I rewrote and I figured out the best way for it to be. Then if I want to inflict some pain on purpose because it was necessary for the experience, you will be amenable to that experience because you were in such good hands. I wasn't being disrespectful of your I don't know what to call it.

I guess just disrespectful of what I was inflicting upon you, you know what I mean? So a novice just inflicts pain on you, and you're just like, okay, I'm not interested in your shitty thing. Okay? So then they get to the second level, which is where they learn this lesson, and they go, oh my God, what have I done? I'm like a complete idiot. Everything I did was horrible.

And then you can get good at getting rid of all of the instincts that make you do things that are for you and not for the audience. But then you just become so good at making people come that you're like a prostitute or something. It's like you forgot how to make love to someone.

You know what I mean? It's like black mirror almost. I don't know. That's how I feel when I'm watching the new season of Black Mirror.

Just hyper efficiency in the storytelling where there's not really poetry to it. Yeah, almost. Or maybe I'm used to it in the way it's expected, I guess.

This is how I feel about Grey's Anatomy. Like those type of shows where they're just like there's just like a jillion episodes and they just make you come. It's like porn.

They make girls come in their girl hearts, you know what I mean? In their penis hearts, you know what I'm saying? Because that's who watches those shows. They want to get that relationship nut thing where they want to get turned on and get off on such and such a hot new doctor is whatever. But the thing is, it's like porn.

It's empty at a certain point. And so it's like yes, it's making people come. It's the same way that McDonald's makes you come.

You eat the fucking thing that's like trash, but you feel like shit. It's not nourishing, it's not the same as going to your grandma's house and she cooks this meal that was passed down for three generations that she learned from her mom that's like some stew that's like, been in the family, and it's just like you eat it. You're like oh, my God.

This is, like, incredible. Fucking my grandma. Grandma, you're making me come.

But anyway, I think you understand what I'm saying. So it's like, you become, like, a professional technician, and then you bring back your childhood sort of imagination and the power of it. And when you can start to mix that together at a high level, that's where you get to, like, mastery as an artist, I think.

And that's why I look at, like I mean, Kanye is just one example. There's many, many artists that I look up to who hit this level of what they're able to do. Stanley Kubrick is a good example of a guy who also made things that were, on the populist side, so fucking popular.

And for incredible art, movies were, like, so accessible. It's, like, the strangest thing because it's so rare. It's so rare to be able to be so massively popular and also make art.

I think it's really difficult to do. Yeah, because he did Twin Peaks, right? No, that was David Lynch. I love David Lynch.

I mean, I love Twin, the original Twin Peaks, especially towards the beginning, he's incredible. It's just, like, magical. It's incredible.

But he's also a guy where this is what's funny, because I think his best work is the stuff that overlaps between being so purely Lynchian and authentic to himself, but also super populist. And the best example of this is Twin Peaks for him. Also, like, Blue Velvet a little bit, but Twin Peaks to me, like, tip Top, but he's so indulgent, and he's just not as interested in the populism as, let's say, like, a guy like Kanye is or how I think Kubrick was.

The new season of Twin Peaks was, like, unwatchable. There's also things in the old Twin Peaks where, after a while, it's like it becomes kind of hard to watch because he just keeps doing more and more of his dreams, where he just has dreams and then he just makes them into scenes in the show. And it's like all this weird stuff, and people will put up with a lot if you're giving them things they want.

And so there's a balance. There's a delicate balance. I was trying to think of another, like, sex metaphor to compare to.

It's like, if this girl is so good in bed, you'll put up with her being a little wacky and having some things she needs you to do. She's, like, pretend that I don't know, pretend that you're a snake and I'm a pheasant. This is, like, weird, but she is so good at having sex that I'll indulge her.

Weirdness. But it's like, bro. It's like, if you don't keep making me nut, though, I don't know if I can keep pretending to be a snake for you.

Audiences can be sort of the same way. And I'd like the thing is, I want to give the audience what they want in some sense. I want to make stuff that people are engaged with.

And that was one of my big lessons from making With A Mouthful of Diamonds, because I made with a Mouthful of Diamonds. And I had limited myself tremendously through a bunch of decisions that I made that I was like, I'm going to make a thing exactly how I want to make it, and I'm not going to care about anything else. Like, this is going to be a perfect movie for me.

And in my judgment. And I wasn't interested in doing anything to help people see the film. And so because of that, I made the film an unusual length.

And so film festivals I knew, like, film festivals will only take a film that is roughly an hour and ten minutes are up, or a film that is 15 minutes and under and skewing towards shorter. And I made a movie that was 42 minutes. And yet the only types of places that my film would do well in terms of the content and the storytelling was these certain types of film festivals, like Arty kind of film festivals like Cam and whatever.

And so because of the decisions that I made, the film didn't go anywhere. And I had this very obnoxious sort of problem and experience where every time someone that I had respect for as a filmmaker or kind of in that world saw the film, they were like, I love this film. This film is, like, amazing.

But it was like, I couldn't get people to see it. You know what I mean? So it's like, I would have this validation that I had created the thing. Well, it's not even like I needed the validation.

Like, I love the movie. I know it's a it's a wonderful movie, but it's just like had I instead of making it 42 minutes, if I had written a half hour more into the movie and then added that in, I actually think the film would have been seen by a lot more people and would have done way better in that sense and maybe helped me on a career level more. But I just didn't do that.

I did nothing to help people see it at all. I had to learn a big lesson about that. You know what I literally thought, richard, I'm such a maniac.

I was like, I'm such a talented filmmaker that I'm going to make a film that's so good that it won't matter that it's the wrong length, even though I know film festivals won't take it or whatever, they're going to see it, and they will take it because it's so good. And I was wrong about that. That didn't happen.

It was just because I was being, like, young, and I was young. I mean, I made the movie when I was 22, so that was more than ten years ago. But yeah, I don't know.

Over the last ten years, I've kind of, like, slowly there's a bunch of different things that I did to try to kind of like some things as a reaction to that, where I was like, okay, I'll go try to do something more Hollywood. So then I start writing stuff, and then you realize, oh, man, that's a whole game to get what you're trying to do there. And then you realize, like, oh, yeah, they're not interested in you as a director.

This was another thing I didn't totally understand is like, because I was young, so I was 22 and made that movie, and then I was 25. I wrote this film and I took some meetings for it. And then it was like, yeah, we love the movie, but we don't know you as a director.

And all I wanted to do was make my own stuff. And so I was like well, I was like, what the fuck? I was like, but you like, the thing that I so you have no trust at all? And it's like, no. So I was like, okay.

So then that kind of led me things, which is one, I was like, I want to get the experience of what it's like to run a writer's room because I have a feeling that I think I want to move towards TV. So then I started working on this movie or this TV show called Supers Market. And so I flew a bunch of my writer friends out to Jersey and had some of them coming down from New York.

And we spent a couple of weeks breaking the story for this TV show. And that was a really good experience. Was this also related to all your friends that showed up at the party or they were just school friends, right? None of the people who came to the party were writers on that show.

But those were yeah, they were school friends. The people you met were school friends. So then what did I do after that? So I did that and then I ever launched anywhere? No, because this whole time, I didn't understand what I was kind of banging my head against the wall where I was just like, I don't understand how to get to the next step, right? Because I would just keep hearing things like, oh, well, you need like, I kept running into this thing that now now I I don't listen to, but then I was listening to, which is I would get to a certain place and then people would tell me like, no.

And they would say, no, because you need X. And so what I would do is I would turn around and go, oh, okay. Fuck.

And I need to do this whole other thing. So then I would go start doing the other thing. So they'd be like, well, you need more writing samples.

So I was like, okay. So then I started going out and writing scripts, right? Then I would get the writing samples and they'd be like, okay, but you need this other thing, right? We don't know you as a director. So I was like, okay, so what if I go direct a movie? So I'll go direct a movie.

You know what I mean? And then also, in the meantime, I'm also trying to make enough money to survive, and I'm trying to build a career as an animator out here because that was, like, how I was making money. I was just trying to get in a situation where I could work less and less for money and spend more of my time on my own stuff. Also, I'm like an artist.

So there's other things I'm coming up with. So I have a handful of things, right? There's a movie called in the Land of Cotton. I've got a TV show called Dark Wizard.

There's supers market there's. Mr. Ryan is a douchecock.

I'm trying to think of other ones where we made significant progress. And so there's a bunch of stuff. Like Mr.

Ryan is a douchecock. Got into made it to the second round of the Sundance Producers Lab. Not the producers lab, the writing lab.

But then we didn't get into the final or whatever. We didn't make the final. We made like the runner up position or whatever.

For Dark Wizard, the same thing happened where we got into the semifinals but didn't get into the final for that. And so for each of these things, I also was like, for Dark Wizard, while we were working on that, I was like, okay, so we're writing this show, but then what are the things we can do to get it to that next level where we get a producer on board or we get because Dark Wizard, I was writing a show that was going to cost millions of dollars. Millions and millions of dollars.

So I'm like, we have to sell this as a spec to a studio. So then you're going through this process of like, what are the best ways to do that and all this kind of stuff. Then we were doing that.

Also, at some point, we had written this me and Rachel had written this movie, a short film called Very Vaginous Miss Christmas. So I had this idea where I was like, what if we animate an animatic? Not a fully animated version of this, but like an animatic for it so it wouldn't be as much work. And we could do that.

And then we could create this whole plan where we send it around to all these producers and whatever, and maybe that will get us some traction or whatever. So we worked on that for a while. And actually while we were in the middle of working on that is when the Wall Street bets thing blew up.

And then I just said to Rachel, I was like, look, I could continue working on Vaginismus right now, or we could just take a month for me to make this music and the music video just to see what happens. So I took three weeks and I did it. And then that popped off.

That got us the Netflix thing. And then once that happened, I suddenly well, also at that time, I had started experimenting with podcasting because the other thing I had wondered was, like, because we were, like, working on Dark Wizard, and then we were also doing podcast stuff. And then it was like, basically the way to think about this is it's like I've started ten different businesses that failed or didn't go anywhere.

It sounds like that. And in the process, I've been learning the whole time. The reason I've pivoted on these other things is because I get to these points where I'm like, this isn't going to get me what I'm looking for.

This isn't actually going to take me where I want, or I think there's a better opportunity that's going to get us closer to what I'm actually looking for. So it's like, when I wrote Mr. Ryan, I just thought I'd be able to go to producers and someone would give me $5 million to make the movie.

I quickly found out that no one wants to give a 25 year old $5 million who they don't know to just make this movie that is like, where they're like, what are you talking about? You know what I mean? And I was like, I don't know. Isn't this how it works? I wrote a dope thing that's, like, awesome, and you should trust me because I'm great. And here's this other movie I made.

And they're like, I don't want to watch that other movie. And you're like, okay. I don't know.

Or they're like, or they watch the other movie, and they're like, well, this movie is very different than the movie you just wrote. And I'm like, yes, because this other movie that I made was more art film and not as commercial, and don't you want to make money? So I've written something more commercial. And it's like, yeah, but maybe you could show us you directing something that's more like this.

And I'm like, yeah, okay. And you're just going like, okay. So I'm like, what do I have to do? I got to go make money to do that.

I got to go make a whole new thing. What are we talking about? Also, there was another thing I did in the midst of this, which I don't think I said, which is this movie, The Pussy Crook, I directed, but I never finished it. And that's the thing, is with each one of these things, because it was like once I took enough meetings from Mr.

Ryan where I was trying to be a director and people were, like, not taking me seriously, I had one of my friends who's a director be like, I think you just need to go out and direct something that just can be a little more accessible to them or whatever and help them see that you can do this. So I was like, cool. So I started making pussy crook.

But of course I'm paying for everything myself. So what I would do is I would make a bunch of money, spend all of my money to make the film and I run out of money. So then we'd have to stop shooting.

And I hadn't finished shooting the whole movie because it was like a full feature film. Then I would spend six months making money and then we go again and start shooting. And then I did it again because I ran out of money again.

And then my lead went back to Iceland and then also shit happens. But then I also start working on other things at the same time. And I'm kind of like, yeah, no, I'm going to finish Pussy Crook.

But I'm also trying to figure out what makes sense. And then I start getting new information where I start to feel like I'm like, man, is Pussy Crook? Is that the best foot forward? Is that the thing I should be doing? Or should I be doing something else? Should I try to write a script that I can just sell? So some of it has been maybe not being focused and hardcore enough about just staying on the one thing. And I think some of it has been being like having a thing that's like dope.

But the scale of how dope it could be is limited by what it is. Like the Pussy Crook, the nature of the film, I don't think it could have gotten enormous. I think it could have gone through the art house circuit a little bit and it could have been helpful to me maybe in my career a little bit that way.

But also, I remember talking to my budy Colin, who's a producer, and I went and wrote Pussy Crook. And I sent it to him. He was like, I love this.

This is like awesome and whatever. And I was like, can we go get money for it? And he was like, no. I was like, what? Really? And he was like, yeah, no one's going to give you money for this.

And I was like, okay. Fuck. Because that's, like, why I was writing it.

Because I thought because I had talked to him and he told me things that made me think if I write a thing that's like this, I get money for it. It's like, no, you can't get money for it. He's like, but I think you should go make it because it seems like you could actually make it.

So I was like, all right, so I'll go make it anyway. And then even, like, pre pandemic. Was it pre pandemic? It was either pre pandemic temp or it was 2020.

Rachel and I started doing a hardcore push with everything we were doing. So we were writing Dark wizard. We were working on a very vaginous Miss Christmas.

We were doing the podcast, and I was like, and we'll also finish Pussy Crook. Okay, I don't think this was a good idea to do four different things. I don't think that made sense.

I think you have to do one thing right, but I didn't want to just pick one thing, and the reason was because none of the things felt like the right thing. And so it's like I was hedging my bets. I was like, yeah, if I put all the energy into finishing Pussy Crook, what if nothing happens? Just like nothing happened with diamonds? So then I start to hedge and go, well, then I'll do vaginismus, because I think maybe something will happen there.

But it's like, okay, but do you want to go all in on vaginismus? It's like, no. So then I just start doing multiple things and thinking that we can do that, but I don't think that works anyhow. So what ended up happening is, like, we went out and found an editor, a dope ass editor to work on Pussy Crook.

And then we ran into this Rachel thing, and it's just like something I've never been able to solve, which is sometimes Rachel just bails out super hard, and it was basically like it was like, okay, we got the editor. The editor is asking for us to have someone organize all the footage. So I was like, cool.

So we found someone to organize all the footage, and I paid him, and then it was like, cool. And Rachel's, like, overseeing that, and she needs to finish the thing she has to do for it so that she can deliver it to the editor and I can't get her to do it. And in the meantime, I'm doing all this other stuff, right? Because I've got these other projects that I'm working on.

I just let it go because I was like, all right, I guess I'll just come back to it at some other time when I have time to do it, because I can't seem to get her to do it. She just won't budge on it, which sucks because we actually had an editor. But anyway, the point is that at the end of the day, I'm just kind of like it's fine.

Because after going through all these different things and finding this well, first of all, having the experience with what's it called GameStop Netflix. And also all the attention that we got in Wall Street bets is where I had this revelation that I was like, oh, this is how you do the online thing? You got to hit these big audiences that are underserved with content. And then I start off to get more hardcore about, like, if I'm going to do this independently, where we're not going through the system, then I got to change my focus a lot.

I got to become more of an entrepreneur. And so that's what's pushed me really heavy into all the entrepreneurial learning stuff, which I'm really glad that I've done because I have the filmmaking skills. And then we're just less reliant on all the gatekeepers who love to continuously tell us that everything we're doing is awesome, except they need us to do something else, where I'm like, okay, and I think I'm a better fit for the entrepreneurial thing anyway.

And I think that I needed to find something I could be 100% focused on. So we started to say, like, okay, we're going to do this podcast because we're going to see if we can I wanted to do two things. Number one, I wanted to prove that we could set our minds to a thing and finish it out right, because we kept running into this stuff where we weren't finishing these big projects.

So I was like, so the only rule is we have to make an episode every single week and release it. And then we didn't actually make our other goal, which was we have to do 100 consecutive episodes. That's hard.

That's two years of work. That's two years. Yeah, but look, it doesn't hurt me that we didn't do 100 because I think we made at least right, how many? I think we did 52.

No, we did more than 52 because we did more than a year. Yeah, I think we did close to 60. If I'm remembering.

I think that number resonates. Yeah, I think we did a 60 where we did 60 where we didn't miss a single week. Plus we did an additional, like, five episodes of the other podcast.

So it really did solidify that if we were focused and serious and we committed, that we could actually do that. So the podcast served its purpose in that way. The other goal we had for the podcast was to experiment with YouTube and see if we could build audience, which we failed at, I think.

Yeah, I think on the level, the 1000 subscribers we got or whatever it is, is like, meaningless. It's like nothing. But the thing I didn't know was I kept watching all these videos that kept being like, you need to just do this consistently for like, three years, and then you'll blow up.

And so I was like, okay, cool, we'll just do that. And I think now I don't agree with this. And also, once we got that far into doing the podcast, like a year in, I looked at it and I was just like, you know what? I don't like doing this.

I don't really like the end product. I don't think it's that good. It's nothing like our filmmaking like our filmmaking is next level.

What we're doing this podcast, we're not that good at this. There's people who are way funnier than us, more charming than us, who this is their game. And we're just like, we're not even doing this because we want to do it.

We're doing it because we're hoping it'll get us somewhere else. So at the same time that I was realizing that we had also been working on these music videos, because I basically was like, let's see if we can make music videos for other communities and see if those pop off. Because I was still in this mindset that it's like, I was like, how can we win the game? And I was thinking too much, I think, about how to win the game in the short term, right? How do we get a lot of views or something? But the reality was I didn't want a lot of views.

And I'll tell you, one of the things that really crystallized that for me is the video that did the best on our channel was some short we made where I spray paint Rachel's forehead. It got, like, half a million views, and it is meaningless to me. I'm like, that doesn't matter.

I don't care about that at all. And in fact, when I kind of really put it together, I'm like, I don't think that if the podcast was getting hundreds of thousands of views that I would feel any differently, because it's like, that's not really what I want to be making. These are things that were not intuitive to me when we started.

I thought, like, maybe you could build an audience and then somehow pivot that into making the show or making one of our movies or shows. No, I understand that resonates. Now, on the flip side, the music videos are a lot more fun, and they're a lot more towards filmmaking.

So I was more interested in that. And that's where I started teaching myself Unreal Engine, and started building two of the music videos in Unreal. And when I started building the minecraft, one is when I realized I was like, we could do a whole show in here.

And then I was like, well, if we could do a whole show in here, it means I get to do a show. And that's actually what I want to do. And I don't want to keep doing stuff like the podcast.

And frankly, I'm not even sure I want to do these music videos that much. I think I much rather make a show because that's, like, what I want to do. It's what I'm best at, is, like, I'm best at storytelling.

I'd rather do storytelling type filmmaking. And this is that. And so that's finally where it's, like, come all back together, where I realized I have to drop everything else, even though people will judge me for being like, well, dude, you did all this work on Pussy Crook.

Like, how come you don't just finish it? Well, here's the problem with this, Richard. I finished Mouthful of Diamonds, and people get on my case for why I didn't do more with that. And if I don't finish writing a script, people get give me shit.

But then if I finish writing the script, they don't go, dude, that's awesome that you wrote the script. You know what they say? They go, Why didn't you do something else with it? So I go, the problem is the goalposts move every time you even do, like, finish a thing. I didn't understand this.

And what really elucidated this is when we did the podcast, because then no one could tell me we weren't finishing. I was like, Bro, every week I put out an episode, so fuck off. You can't tell me I'm not doing it.

And what I realized was that when you actually finish it, no one cares. When I realized that, no one cares, I suddenly went, oh, my God. People want to talk shit.

If I don't finish Pussy Crook and put it out, people will use that as an opportunity to talk shit and be like, Dude, you should finish it. What are you doing? You should finish it. But what I didn't realize is, if I do finish it, they'll just shrug.

Like, they won't care. If I don't get what I'm hoping to get out of it, it's not going to mean anything to them. They'll have no shit to talk.

And once I start to put these things together, I go like, man, I got to stop being driven by people's judgment of me because it makes me feel bad even talking to you about this. I feel guilty and ashamed that I didn't finish Pussy Crook. Or it's like, man, you spent all this time breaking a season of a TV show.

What happened to it? I don't know, man. It's like I couldn't figure out how to get to the next spot. I pitched it a little bit, and people I don't know.

No one gave me a bunch of money, and I wasn't really sure if well, I definitely didn't have enough money to try to self produce it, although I was trying to figure out could I self produce it? And I tried submitting it to a couple festivals for writing because I was like, well, maybe something could happen there. But I just had no real sense of and it's like, I'm trying to get help from other people, and they'll help me for a little bit and then drop out. And I'm just like, what do I do about this? I don't even know.

So then I'm like, Maybe I'm just trying to do something too big so I'll make something smaller so that's when I move into Pussy Crook, where I'm like, okay, this I can actually shoot. So I actually do go shoot it. But again, no one says to me, dude, that's awesome that you went and shot all that stuff.

They just go, oh, you didn't finish it. And so I was like, wait. Fuck.

What? Now, here's what's difficult about this, right? If you're a musician and you're making an album, right, it's not hard the way making a movie is hard, okay? It's not the same. I've been part of the release of multiple albums of music. It's not even close to the same in terms of difficulty.

But the thing is, if someone has released, like, 15 albums or eight albums of music, the perception externally will be that like, oh, look at all that stuff that person did. Right? Whereas the perception of me, if I've done even more work than that person because they don't see the thing in its final form or whatever, or like, here's the thing. If I finish a movie, right, they won't go, oh, dude, that's so dope.

You finished a movie. They'll go, why isn't it on Netflix? Because their friend's album is on Spotify. But they don't understand that their friend is paying to put the album on Spotify, right? Their friend's making no money off of the thing.

It's not like so their friends, they're not in a different position than me, but externally, it looks a certain way, because they go, oh, it's a real album. It's on spotify. Whereas they go, this isn't a real movie because it's not on Netflix.

And then what's interesting is you get this other experience, which is, I actually just was part of a Netflix thing, and people give me more love for that than for anything that I care about or have worked really hard on in the last decade. And this is another thing that has had a big influence on me, because it's just made me realize, like, all this superficial stuff brings me no, it brings me nothing. I mean, I got to be perfectly honest, and I know it might sound ungrateful, and I don't mean to sound ungrateful, because I think it's nice anytime someone wants to try to reach out to be nice to me.

But the truth is, there's not really a single compliment that I got on the Netflix thing that made me feel anything. And there's, like, a reason, which is that I don't care about it. I think it's stupid.

Other people think it's cool because they're like, no, you're in a thing. Yeah, but it's not my art. It means nothing to me.

It's cool. My favorite thing that I got to do is I got to do the music and do the thing at the end where I got to perform a music video thing. That was fun because that's actually my art a little bit.

Yeah. You know what sucks? The credits. They didn't roll all the way through.

They just went on to the next show right as the music video was coming on. I mean, whatever. But this is the thing.

Here's the reality, Richard, right. It's only this weird external thing in people's minds that there's a difference between having something on Netflix and having something on YouTube. The reality is there is no difference.

Kind of. My point is, when you've experienced both, you realize, like, I'm so much more proud of the Christmas Carol music video where we're all scrooges, like, a million times more. I want someone to watch that than watch the Netflix thing.

Because I made it. Because I actually made it. I directed that.

And it's funny, and I'm proud of it. I'm not really proud of the Netflix thing. I'm not ashamed of it.

But I'm just like, Bro, I'm more proud of the fucking little animated thing that took me 2 seconds to make of me singing this song that I made that I posted on my Instagram the other day than I am of the Netflix thing. You know what I mean? It's just the superficial stuff doesn't mean anything to me. And, man, it's taken me a long time to figure that out.

I mean, I had to have some experiences. Not that I've had any big experiences, but it's still small boy shit, but I've had enough. I cut Amigos music video, right? I was the editor for Amigos music video.

Migos are some of the biggest rappers on the planet. And you would think it would make me feel something, that I would be like, this is cool. But I got to be honest again, I'd rather you watch the Christmas Carol thing.

I'd rather you watch mouthful of diamonds. I'd rather you listen to the intro song that I made for Mind Story. I'd rather you read my Mind Story notes than have you watch the Migos music video that I edited.

I don't give a shit. It's meaningless. It doesn't feel like anything anyway.

It's taking me a long time to see this, but I see it now. And now that I see it, I go, damn if there's really not that much of a difference or if there's no material difference between having our shit on Netflix or having it on YouTube. But the thing that does make a difference is whether we're actually making art that's meaningful to us.

Let's do the thing that increases the chances that we can make art that's meaningful to us. Let's max out the stats on that, whatever that looks like. That's how I arrive here with you at Mind Story.

Went through a lot. I'm glad I got all that. Is it annoying? No.

When I go off like that? No, I love it. I told you. I love hearing stories like this again.

Like I mentioned, it's like how my dad used to lecture me, and I just never appreciated it. But it's a very soothing thing for me right now where I can listen to someone talk about their experiences and how you've gone through several different hurdles and all these different things. And it's a very well crafted story.

I feel like I like it. I don't know. It doesn't bother me at all.

It's also very cool to see a very close friend of mine who I know all these things about or know some things about, but also get a deeper view into your whole experiences. And then how I, at the same time start thinking about when did I start having similar thoughts of these social barriers or breaking down social barriers and not giving a fuck about what people thought in terms of status or wealth or whatever the fuck. It was and just like, trying to figure out what the fuck my passion was and trying to just chase a dream and what I wanted to do with that.

I want to be transparent with you so you can see I'm not trying to act like I have it all figured out or I'm further along than I am or that you know what I mean? Trying to be real about, like, hey, man, this last decade has been. I'm sure it has been for you. This last decade for you.

Same thing. It's like you're self discovery going through these different experiences and trying to figure out who you're supposed to be and what you're supposed to be doing. And you know what? Actually there's just one thing I want to add because I do want to try to be as transparent as possible.

Which is like I think I felt myself if I'm reflecting on what I just told you, I think there were certain parts where I'm trying to make it sound like when I'm not following through to the end that it's only a thing where there's this misperception of where it's like the goalposts get moved. So if I say I wrote a screenplay instead of getting credit for it, I get told like well, why didn't you do something else with it? There is another thing to it. Because I do think that's true to a degree.

But I also think there's another thing which is I think that there's something that I think my parents, my mom in particular, but both my parents somehow got it into my head that I would never be able to do anything like this. That they were so doubtful that I have self sabotaged by constantly hedging when I should have just went all in and I didn't. And I stopped short and I didn't put myself in situations to fail until I did the ultimate fail where I just kind of stopped doing the thing because I'm too afraid.

You know how I'm constantly preaching about it's like hey man, it's numbers game. We got to talk to 1000 people. Well, I didn't do that with mouthful of diamonds.

I didn't do that with Mr. Ryan as a douchecock. I didn't have the confidence to do it because and this might sound weird, but at the time I was like I know my work is dope as fuck.

I know I'm great, but I think the institutions are against me no matter what. It's kind of like because the institutions become what's the word? Placeholders for my parents. Yeah, I know it's because what I actually feel is that my parents there's nothing that I can do or that I could ever do when I was a kid or something.

There's some connection between there's nothing I'll ever be able to do to make them be able to see and give me that validation that it's possible. They'll never believe in me. And so because I let the institutions be my parents, they become the foil for my parents or something, then you put me in front of any individual.

You put me in front of, like you put me in a meeting where I got to convince people to come work for us or with us or whatever. And bro, I'll talk them out of their girlfriend, I'll talk them out of their home because I have such confidence over the thing that we're doing. But the thing where I have, like I really struggle with confidence is the institutions.

I feel like the institutions are against me and that they just won't. They're just like, no, you're an outsider. We can smell it on you.

You don't belong. And no matter what you do, it'll never be good enough because you're not one of us. You'll never be one of us.

And I think some of that is in my head and wrong and that I need to be really careful and I need to try to challenge it. I think there's another part of it where sometimes it's right, but it's right because I make series of decisions that are going to force it to be that way. Yeah, I understand what you're saying.

Yeah, it's a similar battle. I think that I've also had a lot with my parents. First just living the first set of series of hurdles that I always went back to was meeting this sort of like what I used to call an obligation to my parents for what they had to sacrifice to bring me here because I knew about all the things they did.

And so I had to that sort of like I had to bring something back from that. They sacrificed so much, so I have to do X amount to do represent that. And then I failed at doing some of that stuff.

And then wasn't until I had a talk with my mom where I was just depressed, and she was just like, I just want you to be happy with what you're doing in your life, and I want you to just do it the right way. That I finally felt like a lot lifted off my shoulders, but still being around them, I still got comments being like, well, what else are you doing? Kind of thing. When can we expect a girlfriend to come over? And every girlfriend I brought back wasn't like the right one kind of thing.

It was like, well, she's not good enough. My mom was right about all of them. Probably not, but all of them.

But she was right about a good chunk of them. Now my dad will comment and be like, yeah, we were throwing away all the shit I brought back. And we were looking at the colleges that I got accepted into that I had full scholarships, and they were like, we should have sent you to one of those schools.

It would have been so much better if you just went to one of those schools instead of WashU. And I was like, Why? I met so many people and had so many good experiences, but it wasn't necessary. When I wanted to concentrate on school, I made the dean's list.

I fucking passed with amazing colors. But, yeah, I fucked around. I went to part of Pratt.

I had all these other experiences, like all these social experiences that I was going through and I thought were very important in my life. And so, yeah, looking back on it, I should have saved my parents that 200 grand or so that they spent sending me to school and just gone to Rutgers or TCNJ or Carnegie Mellon where I even had it or wherever. But, yeah, no, even now they were going through some of that stuff.

My dad was like, yeah, you should have just gone to a different school. Things have changed. And I was like, I don't know.

For me, it just sucks because I'm like, yeah, but it sucks because they have money. I know money is tight right now, and that sucks. I really wish I was in a better place to just provide for my parents and they wouldn't have to worry about stuff.

But at the same time, I could have done the consulting thing and I could have just been just this depressed person my whole life. I know I would have been a depressed person my whole life. Just like an empty shell, like just being another fucking cog in the system and just cranking out these projects.

And it's just like, yeah, they didn't mean shit to me because I had no ownership. Very little in terms of the same way, but in the same way, you have ownership over the stories you want to tell. I didn't have any ownership of the projects I wanted to do or I do.

And even in the end result, they just kind of take your work and they're like, all right, have them back. We'll pay for what you did. You don't get to where the company develops or anything.

So it's just like, I don't know why I'm doing this shit. And I don't see myself at me affording this shit. Doesn't make any sense.

If I'm not happy now, I do it for another 15 years, 100%. And you know what's interesting, dude? So I was talking to my friend Sean yesterday, and here's what's weird. It's like the things you're saying are almost identical to what Sean was saying, which is, like, kind of blowing my mind.

And it's also blowing my mind because it's how I have felt a lot. Right. And there's something about us.

And look, you were drawn for us to work together, right? So that's not an accident. You know what I mean? No, that you and I would be drawn to working together, and I've been very drawn. Like, Sean and I have been drawn together as friends.

But also part of the nature of my friendship with Sean is that he has come to me a lot for advice, right, to Spit game. So that to give him some perspective on stuff. It started kind of with girls, but then it's also gone into career stuff.

And what's interesting is that I'm starting to maybe form a new theory around this about how I think there's a couple aspects to it. I think, number one, it's about how we're men, okay? But I also think it's like maybe it's like certain type of men where we don't fit into the corporate cog kind of system. We're very unhappy there.

And what's befuddling to people outside of us is that when they look at a lot of the facts on the ground, they go, you're so competent. You're really smart. I imagine that your parents probably are like, you're fucking smart.

And then they're going, So what's the deal? You're so smart. You went to a good school. So what's the deal? What's going on? And the thing that they're not able to see is that you are not in the place that you're supposed to be.

You don't have the autonomy that you need to have. You don't have the connection to the mission that you need to have. And I sort of suspect that there's this thing as, like, men, where for some of us, it's like, we have to have a fucking mission.

We got to be deployed. Do you know what I'm saying? It's like, Yo, deploy us, motherfucker. But if there's no deployment, if it's just like you said, if it's just like, hey, man, today we're digging a trench, and then at the end of the day, we're going to fill in the trench, and no one tells us why we're doing what we're doing.

And when we ask questions, we get in trouble, and they go, hey, man, you're lucky to be working here. And you're like, I am? Because I don't really feel like I am, bro. I don't understand what the whole idea is here.

And I just think it's like I think guys like us aren't supposed to be in those positions and that there's nothing wrong with us. And I think there's a lot of energy out there that tries to tell us there's something wrong with us, and it's because the outside world doesn't really understand where to put us. As I've moved towards this entrepreneurship stuff, right, I'm suddenly listening to people where I'm like, wait a second.

These motherfuckers sound like me, okay? And now I'm going, Richard, you Richard who tried to start a CBD delivery or, like, weed delivery service, okay? I started putting things together. I'm like, you know, most people don't try to do things like that. So there was something inside of you where you were like it was like your body knew what you were supposed to be doing, that you need a mission and you need a little more autonomy, and you need more connection to the meaning behind what is being accomplished.

You want to be a part of a team that's trying to solve a thing. And so without anyone encouraging you, in fact, with people actively discouraging you, you went out and actually it's actually amazing. I fucking love this shit.

It's like there's some part of you where you felt this instinct to go do this thing, and yet there's, like, all this shit working against you because it's like you got a partner who's not the right partner, and he kind of bails out. And then when he bails out, it's so demoralizing because you were so excited to finally be doing something that felt in alignment. And then it's like, look at the other stuff, the RC shit, where I'm like, again, much more connected to the mission, much more autonomy, much more entrepreneurial.

Interesting. It's actually not that surprising, really, when you look at it, because even though there's aspects to the RC experience that were not probably good for you in the end, there's probably also aspects to it that you were drawn to because it was fulfilling something that was going unfulfilled in you. Yeah, most definitely.

You know what I mean? I just think our parents just don't get this shit. They're not on the same path, and they can't recognize, they can't see. Imagine if we were parents now and our kids started to kind of just display some of these urges to do these types of things.

I think we might have a different perspective where we're like, maybe you're supposed to go be, like, an entrepreneur or something. Is that something that's interesting to you? Because maybe you need to be a part of a startup kind of thing. Or you need to be in a certain environment that looks different than a big corporate machine kind of environment, and that's totally okay.

Or maybe you need to be doing something where you're interacting. I even think about things like this with, like, because when I look at a lot of my friends who are, like, Asian, Indian, Jewish, I feel a lot of times the pressure that I hear about from them, from their families, is like, hey, here's the business that's making the most money right now. It's happening in Silicon Valley right now, so you probably should go do that.

Go be an engineer, go write code, whatever. But if that kid does not like sitting behind a computer for fucking 20 hours a day or whatever and the thing that actually brings them a lot of fulfillment is more like sales type roles where they can go meet all these people and chop it up and whatever. And that's just what dude, you can make a lot of money in sales, you know what I mean? That's not a bad thing.

And it's like you can make a lot of money in small teams. You can make a lot of money in big corporate structures. There's different ways to do things.

But I think there is this thing where it's just like, oh, well, it's just like this one size fits all kind of attitude of like, oh, well, how come it's like, bro, are you going to be like, yo, man, there's something wrong with this fish. It can't climb a tree. It's so bad at climbing trees.

You know what I'm saying? It's like, yeah, my fucking fish. Put it back in the fucking water. Let it swim.

That's what it's supposed to be doing. Stop judging the fish like it's a fucking monkey. Because it's not.

So we're like fish in a monkey world. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, I mean, that's interesting. I haven't zoomed out honestly, I hadn't zoomed out on the RC thing.

And then the it's funny because I have this one family parent who I've talked to about these businesses and not the RC thing, but I've told them about the marijuana delivery thing. And then the second startup I wanted to work on with a couple of college friends was making this synthesizing marijuana from yeast. It was like a faster way of growing it, but apparently synthesizing marijuana from yeast doing some kind of, like toy company Led thing or like just led others Led shit.

Bro, look at what you've been telling me. That's true. Because your body knows, you know what I mean? Like, deep down in your heart, it's like your brain knows the things that you feel drawn to and it's just not being a pharmaceutical consultant.

And then what happens is because there's all these forces in your life telling you, hey, man, you should be happy. You should be happy. You have this great consulting job.

Why aren't you happy? Right? Then what happens? You become depressed because you believe them. Because you're like, you're right. I should be happy.

There must be something wrong with me. And literally, it's like you're sitting there telling a fish like, dude, what's the problem, man? You seem like you really don't like climbing a tree. And you're just like, man, I don't know.

I'm not very good at it. I don't like it. It doesn't feel right to me.

And they're like, well, it's a great job, so you should be really grateful that you have it. And you're just like, yeah, man, I should be grateful, man. Fuck, I'm not grateful.

I'm a piece of shit. Like, what the fuck, dude? I bet nothing will make me happy. You start to get all these crazy things in your mind that we tell ourselves because we're in the wrong environment and we have a bunch of people telling us that we should be feeling a certain way about it, and it's not matching our reality.

And our reality is that we're supposed to be in the water. It's like we're supposed to be adventuring. You're more of an adventurer.

You know what I mean? And it's like the same way that someone it's just weird to go. It's like, oh, man, this guy's so depressed. He's sitting at an office job.

It's like, yeah, because he wants to be a fucking mountaineer dude. He's supposed to be out leading tours up in the Himalayas or some bullshit. And guess what? When he's doing that, he's happy as a clam.

Right? Let me even take it one step further for you, because this is something that Sean made me realize last night. He was talking about being an excel monkey. He's just like, yeah, I don't know if that's what I'm supposed to be doing.

And I said, dude, let me take it a step further for you. You might find yourself involved in a mission where it requires you to be an excel monkey, and suddenly you have the revelation that it was never about excel, that you were happy as a clam to work on excel when you understood your place in the mission that was meaningful to you. Because this is what happened to me once we got hardcore about what we're doing.

I'm not saying there aren't things that I would rather not do. There are. But, bro, the difference between animating for some bullshit stuff that I don't care about versus like, dude, I'm like fucking animating for the show, and I'm doing all this fucking stuff for the show, bro, I'm lit up like a fucking Christmas tree when I get to do shit for the show.

I'm doing spreadsheets for the show. Bro. I'm getting lit up.

I'm pumped. Fucking six hour meetings. It's like you think in my old jobs I would be down for a fucking dude, I don't even want to do a half hour meeting in those motherfuckers.

So even that can totally change your frame. It's not always the thing you're going to do. And then the second thing him and I talked about, and he said this was really helpful.

I think I may have talked to you about this, so bear with me. If I have, you can tell me if you want to shut up. And I already have.

But basically, it's like I've come up with this thing that I tell myself all the time, you're going to eat shit either way, okay? You're going to eat shit either way. So you know how you described, like, being a consultant, being fucking miserable? That's the shit eating part of that. It's just being it's like I'm fucking miserable every day.

I hate what I'm doing. I'm going to eat shit. I'm going to eat shit.

I'm going to eat shit. On the flip side, it's not like if you go and fucking. Try to do a startup that you're not going to eat shit.

You're going to eat shit, okay? Because it's going to be hard. It's not going to work. People are going to doubt you from the outside, which sucks, and judge you and all this kind of stuff.

You're going to fucking almost lose the business five times. You're going to run out of money. You're going to go broke.

All these fucking things are going to happen. Because that's life. Because life is full of eating shit, right? But here's the beautiful part about it.

You get to choose. Get to choose what kind of shit you want to eat. That's right.

You get to choose. And you get to choose, am I going to eat shit? So I even think about this with simple stuff. Like, if I want to become, like, a fat fuck who's totally out of shape, and I just eat cookies all day, I'm like, yeah, dude, it's great to eat cookies.

But you have to remember, you're going to eat shit for doing that. You're going to get fat. You're going to get diabetes.

You're not going to live as long like, there's all these things that are going to happen to you if you just fully go into that thing. And you should be aware of it. Because I think sometimes what people do is they go, oh, I just want to fucking see my boyfriend and go to the Dodgers game.

And I just, oh, I want to go on vacation, and I want to do this. And I'm like, bro, you should remember, no matter what you choose, you're going to eat shit. And I choose to eat shit.

Working on my dream. And I shovel that shit in my mouth every day. And I'm happy as a clam because even when it's hard, man, I don't feel depressed.

I don't know. It's not like I don't experience any doubts or anything. But I'm just like, man, I'm pretty fucking happy doing this.

I'm pretty happy doing this. And that's fucking cool as fuck. I think there might be nothing cooler than that.

And I think from my perspective at least, the way that I've always I mean, part of it is the teamwork autonomy or the teamwork aspect of it and actually owning part of or, like, being a part of something that's on a grander scheme. But I don't know. When we first started just talking about this before I was involved, I just saw the passion you had in it.

And every time we talked about it, I was just excited. And I was like, there's something about this that makes me really excited. And I think even when I'm doing this stuff now, it's great because the shit that you're teaching me is amazing.

I always come out of our meetings feeling like I've learned something incredible, and I need to go study some more shit like about it because I have no underfucking standing of what you just told me. So I need to go back and go read about all this shit and look at it in a better perspective and shit. But it's like, cool.

That's like the add on. But like, I told you from the beginning, when I agreed to even step on this project was just like, what brings me joy is helping other people. That's really what it boils down to.

I don't need to be the front man. I don't need to be the point guard. Or I guess the point guard is not the right choice.

I guess I don't need to be, like, the score or like, you know, whatever. I like to just, like, if I can, like, help and, like, feel like I'm a part of something and if I can help and help even the little spit to help you accomplish your dream, man, that's great. I get to see my friend who I've always admired finally get to achieve his dream of creating the coolest art, especially now that you've told me more and showed me all these snippets of the show.

It's like, yeah, man, Michael is the fucking shit. He's going to make the fucking shit. He's going to fucking blow some fucking vibes, and it's going to be fucking great.

And I want to be just like I want to just be a part of that whole experience. Just being a part of that experience is just like, that sounds cool as fuck. The fact that I could just, dude, we're going to do it together.

That's the whole thing. And if you, like, helping people, what's so cool about this is the thing we're making? I mean, I know people will think I'm kind of nuts for what I'm saying, but I want to make this to help people. I'm trying to tell stories that I think will actually be transformative.

Like all these lessons that we've been talking about and that we are learning through these processes. I want to tell stories about it to give people context, to understand things that I had to learn the hard way. That you had to learn the hard way.

I want to tell those type of stories. And I've just realized that we can have so much fun while we're doing it. And we can package it in a way just like I was kind of explaining what Kanye does, how he'll package that up into stuff that you want to consume so that you want to have the healthy, wholesome, well rounded meal that's going to nourish you.

I want to make stuff that's going to nourish people's soul. It's going to make the world a better place. I don't get really when people change the world and all this stuff, but I think of it in the basic way where I'm like, bro, if we together with our team, as a team, as a family, if we can create this stuff that there's some fucking kid who's living I mean, everyone's got a tough life, you know what I mean? A lot of people have tough they're living a tough life and they're fucking out there in the world and they can watch this stuff and they can connect, and it resonates and it helps them.

It gives them some perspective. It opens their mind and they go they go, yeah, fuck. Like, I shouldn't feel like a piece of shit because of this reason or that reason, and, oh, man, this is like a helpful thing.

Maybe I could communicate with people in a way that's more helpful to my life because of this thing that I saw. Because humans are memetic. We copy things we see.

And one of the things about Hollywood is I think Hollywood can be kind of nihilistic because even show, even some of my favorite do you watch Succession? I tried to. You seen it? I tried to. I just couldn't stand any of them, man.

Yeah, no, I totally get that. And this is what I was saying about it. I saw the whole show, and my kind of take on it is that it's like, pretty nihilistic.

And I think this is sad to me. And it's like breaking bad. I think Breaking Bad is kind of nihilistic.

I think you have such talented artists who they don't even know what they want to try to bring to the world. Really? Yeah, sure. And that it's a lost opportunity because I think you can make stuff that is really transformative for people in pretty incredible ways.

Yeah. It's just way harder. It is harder.

I think the last Black Mirror episode I just watched was about it was essentially about the fascination of serial killers and stuff like that. But I guess the twist was it just focused more on highlighting what the victim's perspective is. He was the child of these serial killers.

And it just framed it in a way where I was like, yeah, that's the takeaways. We focus so much on the actual serial killers of Chit and going and retelling these stories over and over again. How does this fucking affect the people that fucking have to live through the traumatic experience? That's the story that we don't.

That's where I see it as fast food. It's giving everyone diabetes. You know what I mean? It's giving them mental diabetes.

I'm totally in agreement with you. Same way the news runs and everything else. Yeah, it's porn.

It's all forms of pornography. It's the easy dopamine hits. That's right? Yeah.

Now that Reddit's gone dark and kind of stuff, it's interesting because my home screen I don't have a reason to go to Reddit. There's no quick dope anymore. Now it's just all YouTube shits.

Yeah, but here's what's interesting, right? It's this kind of work, or this is what I found for myself. It's this kind of work that we're doing that brings me a deeper kind of fulfillment, I think it gives me a better kind of dopamine hit, and it's just like, somehow the whole thing is, like, better experience. And so what do I want to propagate out into the world? This yeah.

This feeling that we're going through right now. Yeah. The mission that we're on.

I want to show people they need to have a mission. I want to teach people how to make friends, all of it. I think it's great.

And stop with all the like make everyone's a victim and all this stuff. I just think it's not good for you. I think it's, like, fucking terrible.

Yeah. The girl I told you that I kind of like I had a relationship like that I texted to for years, like a year during her main job was like her and her mom used to do or were doing catering to really rich families who had very specific meal preferences and would do it for their dinner or whatever. But on the side, she would write a blog, and I would look at it, and it was always just about the news and how depressing how the world was, and I was just like, why are you spending so much of your time just watching the news, just getting upset about you? Well, this is the thing.

She doesn't even understand what she's doing. She's shoveling that Big Mac into her mouth and doesn't understand that that's what she's doing. It's crazy to me because she was a writer and I was like, okay, smart people addicted to drugs, man.

Smart people addicted to sugar. Smart people. This is why we have to create propaganda.

I believe in using propaganda. I want to create propaganda where we tell people that they're awesome and they're powerful and that they can achieve things and that no matter what shit happens to you, that it's, like, worth it to fight. It's worth it to grow, to evolve.

It's worth it to connect with other people. I don't want to do this whole thing. It's like, oh, you shouldn't connect with people because all this bad stuff could happen.

It's like, I want to teach people that when bad stuff, bad stuff will happen, but you're strong and you're going to be okay. You know what I mean? I don't know. It's very opposite.

Yeah. But anyway, I got to go. Okay.

Yeah. I'll see you in two days. Essentially, the idea, I believe, was to eventually give me you wanted me to write emails following up with those people, right? I would love if yeah, I would love if you could actually be the one communicating, but I think you should do it through me.

So I think what we do is I have a rule that anything that's getting sent out on my behalf that's, like, as me, I just want to read it beforehand. But yeah, just drafting something to these guys. And then also, maybe there's just, like, notes that I could give you at some point where we go through and I'll just say, all right, you can mention this thing or that thing or something.

Yeah, but mostly mostly I don't think there's a huge deal. It's just like, hey, man, how are you doing? We're looking for this. So if you can write up a draft that's just like that hey, how are you doing? I'm looking for technical artists or someone to help us set up our perforce server.

I don't know if you know anyone or something like that. And then we can just start getting together their contact and contacting them. Okay.

Just wanted to make sure that was it. Yeah, no problem. All right, bro, talk soon.

God speed. You too. Take care.

Love you, budy. Later.
